---
layout: post
title: week 3
finished: true
date: July 8, 2022
---

During our meeting, Dr. Short asked me to narrow down what in HRI interests me and to make a list of all the tools in my toolkit and rate my comfort around using them. Hence, this week I was focussed on thinking about what interests me within the field of HRI and on assessing my strengths and weaknesses.

I read through <a href="http://guyhoffman.com/publications/ThomazHoffmanCakmak16.pdf">_Computational Human-Robot Interaction_ by Thomaz, Hoffman, and Cakmak </a> which provides an overview of the field. I also got an introduction to social robotics by reading <a href="https://link.springer.com/referenceworkentry/10.1007/978-3-540-30301-5_59">_Social Robots that Interact with People_</a> by Breazeal, Takanishi, and Kobayashi. I also went through papers in the <a href="https://dl.acm.org/conference/hri">ACM Digital Library for HRI</a> to see what the state of the field right now is and what is catching my eye. These helped me get a sense of what piques my interest within the field.

I asked the PhD students what technical, mathematical, and robotics tools they use in their research to get a scope for what "tools" entail. Based on this information I made a list of my own tools and rated my current proficiency in them and also rated my comfort level surrounding them. I found this 2-part rating to be helpful because there were quite a few newly acquired tools that I did not feel proficient in but felt comfortable putting them to use while learning more about them.

Aside from this exploration, Isaac and I spoke about shared autonomy and about what a research baseline is. I also got to hear about the RSS conference experience from PhD students: what their favourite moments were and what research presentations stood out to them. I also got to attended a colloquim coordinted by <a href="https://tripods.tufts.edu/research/undergraduate-summer-research-programs/diamonds">DIAMONDS program</a> at Tufts on Reproducibility and Explainability for AI Applications in Scientific Research by Line Pouchard and this was a great ooportunity to meet other undergrads who are doing summer research at Tufts!